+++
title = "Chaos Communication Camp 2015"
date = "2015-08-21T00:00:00"
updated = "2023-03-19T00:00:00"
description = "Besuch des Chaos Communication Camp 2015 durch den Mainframe."

[taxonomies]
topics = ["CCC", "Chaos Computer Club", "Chaos Communication Congress", "Chaos Communication Camp 2015", "Hacking"]

[extra]
thumbnail = "/media/blog/events/cccamp2015/misc/thumbnail.png"
+++

#### Chaos Communication Camp 2015

It goes without saying that the mainframe can also be found at the CCC's 4-year camp. Of course, To set up the village
and to avoid the huge rush for tickets, we arrived a day early. When we arrived at site we found that most of the tent
pitches were already occupied. After an hour searching for a good spot, we finally found ourselves almost right in the
middle of the camp, right next to "Hackcenter 1" ([Map](/media/blog/events/cccamp2015/misc/map.pdf)).

While we started in Oldenburg on 12.08. with lots of clouds in the sky
the weather in [Ziegeleipark Mildenberg](http://www.ziegeleipark.de/) was very sunny all week at over 30°
Celsius. Due to the high temperatures and the lack of rain made it relatively dusty, and it was not possible to sleep in
the tent for a long time due to the high temperatures, but
a small swimming lake on the campgrounds in conjunction with a talk break from
12:00 to 16:00 made the temperatures bearable during the day.

The Mainframe Village was set up by us on "Day 0" as a circle of several igloo and tunnel tents.
and tunnel tents, with camping tables and chairs set up in the middle.
were set up in the middle. The camp actually had all the infrastructure we were used to from the Congress
infrastructure we are used to from the Congress:

* Network: The CCCamp's famous data terminals were once again set up on the camp grounds, CCCamp, which contain the
  camp's active network technology. By dropping off a network cable after our arrival, we were connected to the internet
  1-2h later we were connected to the internet with GBit. Alternatively, there were several WLAN networks in the 2.4 and
  5 GHz band.

* Telephony: As usual, there was also a DECT radio network at the Congress, used by the participants for internal camp
  communication. internal communication. As at the congresses, this service was also available via SIP and via GSM. New,
  however, were the field telephones, which were set up by [Metalab](https://metalab.at/) together with the switching
  center were set up.

* Silk Road: The Silk Road was also set up again, as the camp area is significantly larger than the Congress Center
  in Hamburg, it was much less conspicuous.

* DVB-T: As in previous years, there was also a DVB-T transmitter, which streamed the talks from the largest tents. This
  not only made it possible not only made it possible to watch the talks outside the usually very warm
  tents, but also led to some DVB-T receivers being taken along to test the badges. badges were taken along.

* Electricity: The CCC has set up several large generators to provide electricity on the site.
  to provide electricity on the site. Our village was connected directly to the
  "Day 0" with a cable drum connected to the infrastructure.

A special feature of the camp was definitely the [rad1o badge](https://github.com/rad1o), which was distributed to the
participants. Distributed to the participants. This board, designed by the [µCCC](https://muc.ccc.de) board, is a
further development of the [R0cket](https://web.archive.org/web/20160205053603/https://www.r0ket.de/) from the 2011 camp. It contains a circuit board for
the [HackRF One](https://greatscottgadgets.com/hackrf/) compatible software defined radio. There were suitable talks for
this, which explain e.g. the sending of DVB-T signals with the rad1o.

[//]: # (TODO: Add and link to image gallery)
